Migrating Spark .NET docs for debugging and building application (#16506)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/how-to-guides/ubuntu-instructions.md

---
title: Build a .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
description: Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu

## Prerequisites

If you already have all the prerequisites, skip to the [build](#Build) steps below.

  1. Download and install **[.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)** or the **[.NET Core 3.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0)** - installing the SDK adds the `dotnet` toolchain to your path.
  2. Install **[OpenJDK 8](https://openjdk.java.net/install/)**. 

     - You can use the following command:

       ```bash
       sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk
       ```

     - Verify you are able to run `java` from your command-line.       

>        Sample java -version output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       
       Sample java -version output:
```

       
       ```bash
       openjdk version "1.8.0_191"
       OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_191-8u191-b12-2ubuntu0.18.04.1-b12)
       OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.191-b12, mixed mode)
       ```

     - If you already have multiple OpenJDK versions installed and want to select OpenJDK 8, use the following command:

       ```bash
       sudo update-alternatives --config java
       ```

  3. Install **[Apache Maven 3.6.0+](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)**.

     - Run the following command:

       ```bash
       mkdir -p ~/bin/maven
       cd ~/bin/maven
       wget https://www-us.apache.org/dist/maven/maven-3/3.6.0/binaries/apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       tar -xvzf apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       ln -s apache-maven-3.6.0 current
       export M2_HOME=~/bin/maven/current
       export PATH=${M2_HOME}/bin:${PATH}
       source ~/.bashrc
       ```
       
       Note that these environment variables will be lost when you close your terminal. If you want the changes to be permanent, add the `export` lines to your `~/.bashrc` file.

     - Verify you are able to run `mvn` from your command-line       

>        Sample mvn -version output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       
       Sample mvn -version output:
```

       
       ```
       Apache Maven 3.6.0 (97c98ec64a1fdfee7767ce5ffb20918da4f719f3; 2018-10-24T18:41:47Z)
       Maven home: ~/bin/apache-maven-3.6.0
       Java version: 1.8.0_191, vendor: Oracle Corporation, runtime: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
       Default locale: en, platform encoding: UTF-8
       OS name: "linux", version: "4.4.0-17763-microsoft", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"
       ```

  4. Install **[Apache Spark 2.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)**.

>      - Download [Apache Spark 2.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html) and extract it into a local folder (e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.3.2-bin-hadoop2.7`)

Reviewer: Could you provide a command or screenshot for extracting?

>      - Add the necessary [environment variables](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml) `SPARK_HOME` e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.3.2-bin-hadoop2.7/`

Reviewer: Wording here - is the `PATH` considered an environment variable? If so, include it in the initial sentence. 

```suggestion
     - Add the necessary [environment variables](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml) `SPARK_HOME` (e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.3.2-bin-hadoop2.7/`) and `PATH` (e.g., `$SPARK_HOME/bin:$PATH`)
```

If not, reword to singular "variable":

```suggestion
     - Add the necessary [environment variable](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml) `SPARK_HOME` e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.3.2-bin-hadoop2.7/`
```

       ```bash
       export SPARK_HOME=~/bin/spark-2.3.2-hadoop2.7
       export PATH="$SPARK_HOME/bin:$PATH"
       source ~/.bashrc
       ```
       

>        Note that these environment variables will be lost when you close your terminal. If you want the changes to be permanent, add the `export` lines to your `~/.bashrc` file.

Reviewer: Same question as above - is this just one environment variable? If so, reword to "this environment variable"

>      - Verify you are able to run `spark-shell` from your command-line        

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Verify you are able to run `spark-shell` from your command-line.       
```

>         Sample console output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        
        Sample console output:
```

        
        ```
        Welcome to
              ____              __
             / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
            _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
           /___/ .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 2.3.2
              /_/

        Using Scala version 2.11.8 (Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.8.0_201)
        Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
        Type :help for more information.

        scala> sc
        res0: org.apache.spark.SparkContext = org.apache.spark.SparkContext@6eaa6b0c
        ```                      

Make sure you are able to run `dotnet`, `java`, `mvn`, `spark-shell` from your command-line before you move to the next section. Feel there is a better way? Please [open an issue](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/issues) and feel free to contribute.

## Build

> For the rest of the section, it is assumed that you have cloned the Spark .NET repository into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`

Reviewer: "It is assumed" might sound intimidating to new users (i.e. "if we're making assumptions, what else have I missed? Is the command below enough to clone the repo or are there other cloning steps I'm assumed to have done?").

```suggestion
For the remainder of this guide, you will need to have cloned the .NET for Apache Spark repository into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`.
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dotnet/spark.git ~/dotnet.spark
```

> ### Build Spark .NET Scala extensions layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build .NET for Spark Scala extensions layer
```

> When you submit a .NET application, .NET for Apache Spark has the necessary logic written in Scala that inform Apache Spark how to handle your requests (e.g., request to create a new Spark Session, request to transfer data from .NET side to JVM side etc.). This logic can be found in the [.NET for Apache Spark Scala Source Code](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/tree/master/src/scala).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you submit a .NET application, .NET for Apache Spark has the necessary logic written in Scala that informs Apache Spark how to handle your requests (e.g., request to create a new Spark Session, request to transfer data from .NET side to JVM side, etc.). This logic can be found in the [.NET for Apache Spark Scala Source Code](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/tree/master/src/scala).
```

> The next step is to build the .NET for Apache Spark Scala extension layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to build the .NET for Apache Spark Scala extension layer:
```

```bash
cd src/scala
mvn clean package 
```

You should see JARs created for the supported Spark versions:

* `microsoft-spark-2.3.x/target/microsoft-spark-2.3.x-<version>.jar`
* `microsoft-spark-2.4.x/target/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-<version>.jar`

> ### Build .NET sample applications using .NET Core CLI

Reviewer: I'd add a sentence/short paragraph explaining what "sample applications" means here - introduce/give some context to what they are, link to them, etc.

Reviewer: I'd also consider rewording this title (see my comment in the Windows how-to guide).

>   1. Build the worker,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Build the worker.
```

Author: Made this as -> Build the worker:   to maintain consistency with the suggested comment on Windows instructions file

      dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      ```
      
      Sample console output:

      ```bash
      user@machine:/home/user/dotnet.spark/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples$ dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.0.462+g62fb89029d for .NET Core
      Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

        Restore completed in 37.11 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Microsoft.Spark.csproj.
        Restore completed in 281.63 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples.csproj.
        Microsoft.Spark -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark/Debug/netstandard2.0/Microsoft.Spark.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish/
      ```  

> ## Run samples

Reviewer: Would make this title more consistent with other titles (see my comment about title above/about build and run titles in the Window how-to doc).

Once you build the samples, you can use `spark-submit` to submit your .NET Core apps. Make sure you have followed the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section and installed Apache Spark.

>   1. Set the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` or `PATH` environment variable to include the path where the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`).

Reviewer: Would include a sample command or screenshot here.

>   2. Open a terminal and go to the directory where your app binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`).

Reviewer: Would include a sample command or screenshot here.

         --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
         --master local \
         ~/dotnet.spark/src/scala/microsoft-spark-<version>/target/microsoft-spark-<version>.jar \
         Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount localhost:9092 subscribe test
         ```

     - **[Microsoft.Spark.Examples.Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount (jars provided)](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Sql/Streaming/StructuredKafkaWordCount.cs)**

         ```bash
         spark-submit \
         --jars path/to/net.jpountz.lz4/lz4-1.3.0.jar,path/to/org.apache.kafka/kafka-clients-0.10.0.1.jar,path/to/org.apache.spark/spark-sql-kafka-0-10_2.11-2.3.2.jar,`path/to/org.slf4j/slf4j-api-1.7.6.jar,path/to/org.spark-project.spark/unused-1.0.0.jar,path/to/org.xerial.snappy/snappy-java-1.1.2.6.jar \
         --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
         --master local \
         ~/dotnet.spark/src/scala/microsoft-spark-<version>/target/microsoft-spark-<version>.jar \
         Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount localhost:9092 subscribe test
          ```

> Feel this experience is complicated? Help us by taking up [Simplify User Experience for Running an App](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/issues/6).

Reviewer: This line doesn't seem necessary? Also, it links to a merged PR (not sure if that is the correct link).

---
title: Build a .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
description: Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu

## Prerequisites

> If you already have all the prerequisites, skip to the [build](#Build) steps below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have all the prerequisites, skip to the [build](#build) steps below.
```

---

> title: Building .NET for Apache Sapark application on Ubuntu

Reviewer 2: Typo + guidelines fix

```suggestion
title: Build .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
```

description: Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

> # Table of Contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Table of Contents

```

- [Open Issues](#open-issues)
- [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)
- [Building](#building)
  - [Building Spark .NET Scala Extensions Layer](#building-spark-net-scala-extensions-layer)
  - [Building .NET Sample Applications using .NET Core CLI](#building-net-sample-applications-using-net-core-cli)
- [Run Samples](#run-samples)

> ## Open Issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Open issues

```

Author: These are not currently active issues, will remove this section. Thanks!

> - [Building through Visual Studio Code]()

Reviewer 2: Link is empty.

> ## Pre-requisites:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pre-requisites
```

> If you already have all the pre-requisites, skip to the [build](ubuntu-instructions.md#building) steps below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have all the pre-requisites, skip to the [build](#building) steps below.
```

>   1. Download and install **[.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)** or the **[.NET Core 3.0 preview SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0)** - installing the SDK will add the `dotnet` toolchain to your path.

Reviewer 2: .NET Core 3.0 is no longer preview AFAIK.

```suggestion
  1. Download and install **[.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)** or the **[.NET Core 3.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0)** - installing the SDK will add the `dotnet` toolchain to your path.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  1. Download and install **[.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)** or the **[.NET Core 3.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0)** - installing the SDK adds the `dotnet` toolchain to your path.
```

>   2. Install **[OpenJDK 8](https://openjdk.java.net/install/)** 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  2. Install **[OpenJDK 8](https://openjdk.java.net/install/)**.
```

     - You can use the following command:

       ```bash
       sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk
       ```

     - Verify you are able to run `java` from your command-line
       <details>

>        <summary>&#x1F4D9; Click to see sample java -version output</summary>

Reviewer 2: What are these html-like syntax for ?

Author: This is for a drop down to show the output of the java -version command

Reviewer 3: This is not supported. See the preview here: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/spark/how-to-guides/ubuntu-instructions?branch=pr-en-us-16506

Author: When I click on the arrow icon I can see the output, in a toggling fashion, it seems to be working to me. Please check once. Thanks!

       
       ```
       openjdk version "1.8.0_191"
       OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_191-8u191-b12-2ubuntu0.18.04.1-b12)
       OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.191-b12, mixed mode)
       ```

     - If you already have multiple OpenJDK versions installed and want to select OpenJDK 8, use the following command:

       ```bash
       sudo update-alternatives --config java
       ```

>   3. Install **[Apache Maven 3.6.0+](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  3. Install **[Apache Maven 3.6.0+](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)**.
```

     - Run the following command:

       ```bash
       mkdir -p ~/bin/maven
       cd ~/bin/maven
       wget https://www-us.apache.org/dist/maven/maven-3/3.6.0/binaries/apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       tar -xvzf apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       ln -s apache-maven-3.6.0 current
       export M2_HOME=~/bin/maven/current
       export PATH=${M2_HOME}/bin:${PATH}
       source ~/.bashrc
       ```
       
       Note that these environment variables will be lost when you close your terminal. If you want the changes to be permanent, add the `export` lines to your `~/.bashrc` file.
     - Verify you are able to run `mvn` from your command-line

>        <details>

Reviewer 3: This is not supported

       <summary>&#x1F4D9; Click to see sample mvn -version output</summary>
       
       ```
       Apache Maven 3.6.0 (97c98ec64a1fdfee7767ce5ffb20918da4f719f3; 2018-10-24T18:41:47Z)
       Maven home: ~/bin/apache-maven-3.6.0
       Java version: 1.8.0_191, vendor: Oracle Corporation, runtime: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
       Default locale: en, platform encoding: UTF-8
       OS name: "linux", version: "4.4.0-17763-microsoft", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"
       ```

>   4. Install **[Apache Spark 2.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  4. Install **[Apache Spark 2.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)**.
```

       ```bash
       export SPARK_HOME=~/bin/spark-2.3.2-hadoop2.7
       export PATH="$SPARK_HOME/bin:$PATH"
       source ~/.bashrc
       ```
       
       Note that these environment variables will be lost when you close your terminal. If you want the changes to be permanent, add the `export` lines to your `~/.bashrc` file.
     - Verify you are able to run `spark-shell` from your command-line
        <details>
        <summary>&#x1F4D9; Click to see sample console output</summary>
        
        ```
        Welcome to
              ____              __
             / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
            _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
           /___/ .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 2.3.2
              /_/

        Using Scala version 2.11.8 (Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.8.0_201)
        Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
        Type :help for more information.

        scala> sc
        res0: org.apache.spark.SparkContext = org.apache.spark.SparkContext@6eaa6b0c
        ```
                   
        </details>

> Please make sure you are able to run `dotnet`, `java`, `mvn`, `spark-shell` from your command-line before you move to the next section. Feel there is a better way? Please [open an issue](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/issues) and feel free to contribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you are able to run `dotnet`, `java`, `mvn`, `spark-shell` from your command-line before you move to the next section. Feel there is a better way? Please [open an issue](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/issues) and feel free to contribute.
```

> ## Building

Reviewer 2: This change will break the links to this heading, the links should be fixed too.

```suggestion
## Build
```

> For the rest of the section, it is assumed that you have cloned Spark .NET repo into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the rest of the section, it is assumed that you have cloned Spark .NET repository into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`
```

> For the rest of the section, it is assumed that you have cloned Spark .NET repo into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the rest of the section, it is assumed that you have cloned the Spark .NET repository into your machine e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/`
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

git clone https://github.com/dotnet/spark.git ~/dotnet.spark
```

> ### Building Spark .NET Scala Extensions Layer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Build Spark .NET Scala extensions layer
```

> ### Building Spark .NET Scala Extensions Layer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Build the Spark .NET Scala extensions layer
```

> When you submit a .NET application, Spark .NET has the necessary logic written in Scala that inform Apache Spark how to handle your requests (e.g., request to create a new Spark Session, request to transfer data from .NET side to JVM side etc.). This logic can be found in the [Spark .NET Scala Source Code](../../../src/scala).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you submit a .NET application, .NET for Apache Spark has the necessary logic written in Scala to handle your requests (e.g., request to create a new Spark Session, request to transfer data from .NET side to JVM side etc.). This logic can be found in the [.NET for Apache Spark Scala Source Code](../../../src/scala).
```

Reviewer 3: The scala source code link needs to be updated

> Let us now build the Spark .NET Scala extension layer. This is easy to do:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next step is to build the .NET for Apache Spark Scala extension layer.
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: probably console or bash identifier?
Not sure which one is most suitable

Author: How about bash?

cd src/scala
mvn clean package 
```

You should see JARs created for the supported Spark versions:

> * `microsoft-spark-2.3.x/target/microsoft-spark-2.3.x-<version>.jar`

Reviewer 2: Fixes a lint error

```suggestion

* `microsoft-spark-2.3.x/target/microsoft-spark-2.3.x-<version>.jar`
```

* `microsoft-spark-2.4.x/target/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-<version>.jar`

> ### Building .NET Sample Applications using .NET Core CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Build .NET sample applications using .NET Core CLI
```

>   1. Build the Worker

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  1. Build the worker,
```

>       ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ```dotnetcli
```

      cd ~/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/
      dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      ```

      <details>

>       <summary>&#x1F4D9; Click to see sample console output</summary>

Reviewer 3: Not supported.

      ```bash
      user@machine:/home/user/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark.Worker$ dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.0.462+g62fb89029d for .NET Core
      Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
      
        Restore completed in 36.03 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.csproj.
        Restore completed in 35.94 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Microsoft.Spark.csproj.
        Microsoft.Spark -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark/Debug/netstandard2.0/Microsoft.Spark.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.Worker -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.Worker -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish/
      ```

      </details>

>   2. Build the Samples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  2. Build the samples.
```

>       ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ```dotnetcli
```

      cd ~/dotnet.spark/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/
      dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      ```

      <details>

>       <summary>&#x1F4D9; Click to see sample console output</summary>

Reviewer 3: Not supported

      ```bash
      user@machine:/home/user/dotnet.spark/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples$ dotnet publish -f netcoreapp2.1 -r ubuntu.18.04-x64
      Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.0.462+g62fb89029d for .NET Core
      Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

        Restore completed in 37.11 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Microsoft.Spark.csproj.
        Restore completed in 281.63 ms for /home/user/dotnet.spark/examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples.csproj.
        Microsoft.Spark -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark/Debug/netstandard2.0/Microsoft.Spark.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples.dll
        Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples -> /home/user/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish/
      ```

     </details>

> ## Run Samples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run samples
```

> Once you build the samples, you can use `spark-submit` to submit your .NET Core apps. Make sure you have followed the [pre-requisites](#pre-requisites) section and installed Apache Spark.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you build the samples, you can use `spark-submit` to submit your .NET Core apps. Make sure you have followed the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section and installed Apache Spark.
```

>   1. Set the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` or `PATH` environment variable to include the path where the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  1. Set the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` or `PATH` environment variable to include the path where the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`).
```

>   2. Open a terminal and go to the directory where your app binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  2. Open a terminal and go to the directory where your app binary has been generated (e.g., `~/dotnet.spark/artifacts/bin/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/ubuntu.18.04-x64/publish`).
```

  3. Running your app follows the basic structure:

     ```bash
     spark-submit \
       [--jars <any-jars-your-app-is-dependent-on>] \
       --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
       --master local \
       <path-to-microsoft-spark-jar> \
       <path-to-your-app-binary> <argument(s)-to-your-app>
     ```

>      Here are some examples you can run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Here are some examples you can run:

```

>      - **[Microsoft.Spark.Examples.Sql.Batch.Basic](../../examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Sql/Batch/Basic.cs)**

Reviewer 2: Link not valid.

         ```bash
         spark-submit \
         --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
         --master local \
         ~/dotnet.spark/src/scala/microsoft-spark-<version>/target/microsoft-spark-<version>.jar \
         Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples Sql.Batch.Basic $SPARK_HOME/examples/src/main/resources/people.json
         ```

>      - **[Microsoft.Spark.Examples.Sql.Streaming.StructuredNetworkWordCount](../../examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Sql/Streaming/StructuredNetworkWordCount.cs)**

Reviewer 2: Link not valid

         ```bash
         spark-submit \
         --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
         --master local \
         ~/dotnet.spark/src/scala/microsoft-spark-<version>/target/microsoft-spark-<version>.jar \
         Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples Sql.Streaming.StructuredNetworkWordCount localhost 9999
         ```

>      - **[Microsoft.Spark.Examples.Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount (maven accessible)](../../examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Sql/Streaming/StructuredKafkaWordCount.cs)**

Reviewer 2: Link not valid

         ```bash
         spark-submit \
         --packages org.apache.spark:spark-sql-kafka-0-10_2.11:2.3.2 \
         --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
         --master local \
         ~/dotnet.spark/src/scala/microsoft-spark-<version>/target/microsoft-spark-<version>.jar \
         Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount localhost:9092 subscribe test
         ```

>      - **[Microsoft.Spark.Examples.Sql.Streaming.StructuredKafkaWordCount (jars provided)](../../examples/Microsoft.Spark.CSharp.Examples/Sql/Streaming/StructuredKafkaWordCount.cs)**

Reviewer 2: Link not valid.

---
title: Build a .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
description: Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu
ms.date: 01/02/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Learn how to build your .NET for Apache Spark application on Ubuntu

## Prerequisites

If you already have all the prerequisites, skip to the [build](#build) steps below.

>   1. Download and install **[.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)** or the **[.NET Core 3.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.1)** - installing the SDK adds the `dotnet` toolchain to your path.

Reviewer: Are only .NET Core 2.1 and 3.1 supported (or recommended) for this? If so, this sounds great. If other versions of .NET Core are also compatible, might be worth noting which versions are supported/recommended.

Reviewer: Looking ahead, it looks like the version of this line in the Windows how-to guide lists the specifically-supported versions. Would we like to list the same here?

Author: Makes sense, will make the change.

  3. Install **[Apache Maven 3.6.0+](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)**.

     - Run the following command:

       ```bash
       mkdir -p ~/bin/maven
       cd ~/bin/maven
       wget https://www-us.apache.org/dist/maven/maven-3/3.6.0/binaries/apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       tar -xvzf apache-maven-3.6.0-bin.tar.gz
       ln -s apache-maven-3.6.0 current
       export M2_HOME=~/bin/maven/current
       export PATH=${M2_HOME}/bin:${PATH}
       source ~/.bashrc
       ```
       
       Note that these environment variables will be lost when you close your terminal. If you want the changes to be permanent, add the `export` lines to your `~/.bashrc` file.

     - Verify you are able to run `mvn` from your command-line       

       Sample mvn -version output:
       
       ```
       Apache Maven 3.6.0 (97c98ec64a1fdfee7767ce5ffb20918da4f719f3; 2018-10-24T18:41:47Z)
       Maven home: ~/bin/apache-maven-3.6.0
       Java version: 1.8.0_191, vendor: Oracle Corporation, runtime: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
       Default locale: en, platform encoding: UTF-8
       OS name: "linux", version: "4.4.0-17763-microsoft", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"
       ```

>   4. Install **[Apache Spark 2.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)**.

Reviewer: Would we like to also explain to users the other versions of Apache Spark they could use? 

We used this line in the getting started tutorial doc: "Download and install Apache Spark. You'll need to select from version 2.3.* or 2.4.0, 2.4.1, 2.4.3, or 2.4.4 (.NET for Apache Spark is not compatible with other versions of Apache Spark)."

Author: Yes, we can mention the supported versions here. Will make that change, thanks!
